# Status Report 2025-01-22

## Team Report
<!-- status update for your TA, including an agenda for the project standup meeting -->

### Last Week Goals

- [x] Create a 4-page slideshow presentation
- [X] Create a PM board on Trello @Jake-Thompson
- [x] Update Living document
- [x] deliver zip with presentation and Updated Living document 🚚canvas
- [x] TA meeting scheduled

### Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

- We had a hard time getting our TA meeting schedule but eventuly got it worked out
- We had to scrap our first project idea and come up with a whole new one and be ready to present it, we made it through though

### Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

- start UI design
- start DB design
-

## Contributions of Individual Team Members

### Individual Last Week Goals

<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

Anshu Avinash

- [x] Begin work on Project Presentation and Report

William Brennan

- [x] schedule TA meeting

Kathryn Butler

- [x] Begin work on Project Presentation and Report
- [x] Collaborate on Project Proposal

Finlay Curtiss

- [x] Begin work on Project Presentation and Report

Adison Daggett

- [x] Begin work on Project Presentation and Report

Luke Scovel

- [x] Schedule Weekly meetings with TA
- [x] Rethink project idea
- [x] Fill out use case

Jake Thompson

- [x] figure out and setup Trello
- [x] make report template
- [x] Begin work on Project Presentation and Report

### Individual Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

Anshu Avinash

- Worked on the project project.
- Added my part for Functional Requirements and Team Structure.

William Brennan

- Created the initial draft for the 2nd project proposal that was later renamed to Beaver Botanica.
  - Added Communication Channel and Rules, Goal, Current Practice, Effects, Risks, and Feedback sections.
  - Edited the Software Toolset section to be more descriptive about why we are using certain backend and frontend software, and edited the Abstract to include a problem statement.
  - Added my part to the User Requirements and Team Structure sections.

Kathryn Butler

- Designed progress presentation, including a rough draft of what a mobile website would look like.
- Worked on the project idea report, specifically the Abstract, the Non-Functional Requirements, the External Requirements, and the Timeline. I took extra care to align our project timeline with the assignment deadlines.
- Updated the living document to include the details from the project idea report.

Finlay Curtiss

- Worked on project pitch presentation, including research and script.
- Worked on the project idea report, specifically the Functional Requirements, External Requirements, and Non-Functional Requirements sections.

Adison Daggett

- Helped in drafting out the report and content of it

Luke Scovel (@Flameis)

- Helped William create the initial draft for the 2nd project proposal.
  - Created the Abstract, Novelty, Technical Approach, and Features
  - Added detail to the software toolset
  - Added risks
- Finished use case
- Scheduled regular TA meetings

Jake Thompson

- figured out and setup Trello
- made reports template in md. "/reports/_template.md"
- drew 2 rough layouts drafts for UI
  - can be seen in "/ruff-layout-drafts" (yes I know I spelled rough wrong)
  - were used by the team as reference to make the mock up in the Presentation Slides
    - I was asked for feedback on this and gave it.
- worked on Project Report
- managed the slide deck during Project Presentation

### Individual Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

Anshu Avinash

-Begin to work on UI design of the project.

William Brennan

- Begin research on how to design the database for the project.

Kathryn Butler

- Create task list for all team members.
- Announce the due dates for tasks.
- Finish the Project Idea Presentation and Report.
- Begin work on Project Architecture and Design.

Finlay Curtiss

- Polish the Project Proposal document.
- Begin work on the Project Architecture and Design document.

Adison Daggett

- Begin drafting possible UI on the software Figma.

Luke Scovel

- Setup database and website hosting
- Begin database design

Jake Thompson

- Begin database design process
