# Status Report 2025/02/03

<!-- filename format is YYYYMMDD.md -->

<!-- Both sections should have the following three subsections. Each subsection is best organized as bullet points, though you can write a paragraph instead.   -->

## Team Report
<!-- status update for your TA, including an agenda for the project standup meeting -->

- Had both standup meetings this week.
- Finished the Architecture and Design document.
- Finished the Midterm Presentation and Report.
- [Report Link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vTG45TTxZEER5BNPlqOJ81y2_CoBAbPGc1G3RDjc8cU/edit?usp=sharing), can see google docs history for individual contributions. (some of which was copied from the original living document)


### Last Week Goals
<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->
- work on UI design
- work on DB design
- finish Architecture and Design documentation

### Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

- Started implementing the database.
- Started implementing the UI design.

### Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

- work on Midterm Presentation and Report
- Create a basic UI website by Friday (find a high-quality image of OSU map)


## Contributions of Individual Team Members

### Individual Last Week Goals

<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

Anshu Avinash

- Confirm and handle the UI design based on the feedback from this week. 

William Brennan

- Collaborate with Luke and Jake to design the database.

Kathryn Butler

- [x] Finish Project Architecture and Design by Saturday.
- [x] Organize and clarify the living document.
- [x] Assign concrete tasks to teammates on Trello and Teams.
- [x] Assist frontend and backend teams with project implementation.

Finlay Curtiss

- Finish Project Architecture and Design document.
- Create database schema.
- Begin working on Mid-Term Project Presentation and Report.

Adison Daggett

- Have a solid idea of how to handle designing the UI based on feedback and software requirements this week
- Figure out how to start implementing features when that time comes

Luke Scovel

- Created table Enitities, Attribues, and Relationships.
- Created CRUD

Jake Thompson

- work on db design
- work on database table design
- start thinking about other backend design


### Individual Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

Anshu Avinash

- work on UI design based on the feedbacks

William Brennan

-

Kathryn Butler

- Finished the Project Architecture and Design document.
- Began work on the Midterm report and presentation.

Finlay Curtiss

- Worked on our living document, adding Architecture and Design components.
- Created a diagram for our database.

Adison Daggett

- With the backend being implemented, I have had a lot of waiting time before I could properly start the front end. I hope to use that time effectively.

Luke Scovel (@Flameis)

- Started on database implementation.
    - Identified libraries for use
    - Created JavaScript connection to database
- Finished my section of the slides for the midterm presentation.
    - Software architecture - System
    - Software architecture - Database
- Report Sections:
    - Abstract
    - Use Case - Luke
    - System
    - Database
    - Problem with current software - partly
    - Components - Partly

Jake Thompson

- I was in the ER this week and was recovering for a few days. Then I was busy trying to catch up on all my classes, that I did less than I planed this week.
- It's also why i'm behind on reports
- Before this happened i was working on DB design directly on the mySQL server, but luke and will to a different approach that was better.
- I did refine what they came up with and made a pull request.
  - The taxonomy table should be called the species table (change-taxonomy-to-species branch)
  - clarified the purpose of the species and plants table (species have species level properties, plants only have instance properties)
    - moved some propeties around
  - also removed properties that are redundent and should be generated (scientific-name is just genus+species)

### Individual Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

Anshu Avinash

-Start working on front-end implementation on the website and try complete it by Friday.

William Brennan

-

Kathryn Butler

- Finish the midterm report and presentation.
- Rehearse my part of the presentation.
- Update living document to match requirements for the assignment.
- Assist front end team with project implementation.

Finlay Curtiss

- Write script and slides for my section(s) of the midterm presentation.
- Rehearse presenting for Monday.

Adison Daggett

- Start front end implementation with the creation of the first few HTML, JS, and CSS pages

Luke Scovel

- Build queries to access data from the database.
    - Time estimate: 3 days 
- Work on the backend to connect the database to the website.
    - Time estimate: 5 days
    - Create JavaScript funtion to connect to the database.
        - Time estimate: 2 days
    - Create a function to display the data on the website.
        - Time estimate: 3 days
    - Create the event listeners for the website.
        - Time estimate: 3 days
- Write script and slides for my section of the midterm presentation.
    - Time estimate: 2 days

Jake Thompson

- Work on my part of the script and slides for the presentation
- Get well after my need to be in the emergency room.
- Start API design.
- Start other backend design.
