# Status Report 2025-02-12

<!-- filename format is YYYYMMDD.md -->

<!-- Both sections should have the following three subsections. Each subsection is best organized as bullet points, though you can write a paragraph instead.   -->

## Team Report
<!-- status update for your TA, including an agenda for the project standup meeting -->
- **MUST** have detailed description of the work we've accomplished on Trello and the weekly reports, especially if some members put work into a Google Docs that was then transferred to a GItHUb Markdown file.
- Be VERY clear what sections you worked on in the technical document. ASsigning everyone to "complete the report" isn't going to cut it. In the weekly report, make sure to describe in detail the work you completed on technical documentation or website design.

### Last Week Goals
<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

- Worked on Midterm Presentation and Report
- Create a basic UI website by Friday (find a high-quality image of OSU map)

### Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

- We completed our presentation and presented our Software Architecture and Design to the class.
- We created the server and filled it with data from the OSU plant API.
- We created basic features of the frontend and continued working on the design.

### Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

- Add basic webpage functions.
- Implement database.
- Create event listeners for client to server.
- Create a event listeners for client to server. 

## Contributions of Individual Team Members

### Individual Last Week Goals

<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

Anshu Avinash

- Start working on front-end implementation on the website and try complete it by Friday.

William Brennan

- Rehearse my part of the presentation
- Assist Luke and Jake with backend implementation

Kathryn Butler

- [x] Finish the midterm report and presentation.
- [x] Rehearse my part of the presentation.
- [x] Update living document to match requirements for the assignment.
- [ ] Assist front end team with project implementation.

Finlay Curtiss

- Write script and slides for my section(s) of the midterm presentation.
- Rehearse presenting for Monday.

Adison Daggett

- Start front end implementation with the creation of the first few HTML, JS, and CSS pages

Luke Scovel

- Build queries to access data from the database.
    - Time estimate: 3 days 
- Work on the backend to connect the database to the website.
    - Time estimate: 5 days
    - Create JavaScript funtion to connect to the database.
        - Time estimate: 2 days
    - Create a function to display the data on the website.
        - Time estimate: 3 days
    - Create the event listeners for the website.
        - Time estimate: 3 days
- Write script and slides for my section of the midterm presentation.
    - Time estimate: 2 days

Jake Thompson

- Work on my part of the script and slides for the presentation
- Get well after my need to be in the emergency room.
- Start API design.
- Start other backend design.

### Individual Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

Anshu Avinash

- I spent my time working on the UI design for the presentation, but I didn’t get a chance to work on the report. I originally thought the report and the script were the same thing, so I didn’t realize I needed to work on both separately.
- Looking back, I wish I had managed my time differently, but now that I understand the difference, I’ll make sure to allocate time for both moving forward!

William Brennan

- Besides attending class and meetings I did not contribute to the project in a meaningful way. Next week I plan to dive into the database and add something of value to the project.

Kathryn Butler

- I created the presentation, script, and report for the team. I updated the style for the presentation, and I filled in the title, problem, and solution slides, two slides for testing, and the concluding and recap slides. I also completed the testing slides and created a script for them. I presented the last two slides during our presentation, and ensured that we stayed within the 10-minute time limit.
- I did the majority of the work compiling the [midterm project report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vTG45TTxZEER5BNPlqOJ81y2_CoBAbPGc1G3RDjc8cU/edit?tab=t.0). I made sure the document contained each section that was required by the midterm assignment. I also finished the "Testing Our Solution" section, as well as the project schedule section. I also updated the living document to reflect the changes made to the report.
- I did not have time to assist the front-end team with their implementation, because I directed the majority of my attention towards the midterm presentation and report. I also have created a draft of our Project Implementation user and developer documents, which I plan to expand upon this week.

Finlay Curtiss

- Wrote script and made slides for Requirements and Risks (this slide was cut for time)
- Rehearsed with team
- Updated Risk section on our Project Report

Adison Daggett

- I worked on the problem, solution, and front-end architecture of the presentation. I only did the problem and solution sections for the report. I wish I was able to do more for that part of the project, but due to a miscommunication, I was under the impression that the script and the report were the same. Despite that, I am happy with the work I was able to accomplish.
- I hope to be able to work more on the front end this week, but with a midterm on the horizon, I doubt I can do much.

Luke Scovel (@Flameis)

- In-progress on writing the database link

Jake Thompson

- Was finally getting caught up this week, after my ER incident last week.
- I am in the process of finishing the api design.
- I am also 95% done with osu landscape plants parser. (this is to generate a species list)
- Worked on the algorithms part of the presentation.
- Presented the algorithms part of the presentation.
  - Had several new ideas during this process such as removing add species from user actions and having that be preloaded into db or dynamicly loaded from another database.
  - thought about what actions each user group should be allowed to preform

### Individual Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

Anshu Avinash

- I plan to work on implementing the login/signup functionality, which will allow users to create accounts and access personalized features. Additionally, I’m looking into enabling a search feature and filter options on the main webpage to improve usability. The search feature will help users quickly find specific plants, while the filter options will make it easier to narrow down results based on different criteria.


William Brennan

- Create basic SQL queries.
- Finish implementing the database.

Kathryn Butler

- User Documentation
- Developer Documentation
- Admin Documentation?
- Assist frontend with implementation?

Finlay Curtiss

- Begin working on frontend pages
- Create documentation for how to run and work with the software

Adison Daggett

- I hope to work on basic features of the front end. Most importantly, I hope to create a few menus. At the very least I want to make one. Having a side menu was something that was considered very important in the design process, so I hope to be able to help in the initial implementation of that. 

Luke Scovel

-

Jake Thompson

- Work more of api design
- Finish fixing the minor issues with the species list parser
- Start implimenting the API.
  - Integrate with luke's database access he is working on.
