# Status Report 2-25-02-19

<!-- filename format is YYYYMMDD.md -->

<!-- Both sections should have the following three subsections. Each subsection is best organized as bullet points, though you can write a paragraph instead.   -->

## Team Report
<!-- status update for your TA, including an agenda for the project standup meeting -->

### Last Week Goals
<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

 - [x] Add basic webpage functions.
 - [x] Implement database.
 - [ ] Create event listeners for client to server.
 - [x] Rough draft of User Documentation.
 - [x] Rough draft of Developer Documentation.

### Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

- This week was rough for us, because many team members got sick or had to complete midterms. We didn't get as much done as we'd like. We cleaned up our API and implemented some react. We're feeling kind of hesitant about meeting the deadline of having a beta relase on the 4th.

### Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

- Continue to add functions to webpage.
- Link database to webpage.
- Create event listeners for client to server.
- Finish draft of User Documentation.
- Finish draft of Developer Documentation.

## Contributions of Individual Team Members

### Individual Last Week Goals

<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

Anshu Avinash  

- [ ] Started working on front-end implementation on the website and try complete it by Friday.

- [ ] I plan to work on implementing the login/signup functionality, which will allow users to create accounts and access personalized features.
- [ ] Additionally, I’m looking into enabling a search feature and filter options on the main webpage to improve usability. The search feature will help users quickly find specific plants, while the filter options will make it easier to narrow down results based on different criteria.  

William Brennan  

- [ ] Create basic SQL queries.  
- [ ] Finish implementing the database.  

Kathryn Butler  

- [x] User Documentation  
- [x] Developer Documentation  
- [ ] Admin Documentation?  
- [ ] Assist frontend with implementation?  

Finlay Curtiss  

- [ ] Begin working on frontend pages  
- [x] Create documentation for how to run and work with the software  

Adison Daggett  

- [ ] I hope to work on basic features of the front end. Most importantly, I hope to create a few menus. At the very least I want to make one. Having a side menu was something that was considered very important in the design process, so I hope to be able to help in the initial implementation of that.  

Luke Scovel  

- [X] Finish the database implementation and interconnection between the servers.

Jake Thompson  

- [ ] Work more on API design  
- [ ] Finish fixing the minor issues with the species list parser  
- [ ] Start implementing the API.  
  - [ ] Integrate with Luke's database access he is working on.  


### Individual Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

Anshu Avinash

- Update the Overview section of the User Documentation
- Nearly finished with the login page (I could not add it to the GitHub as I had a midterm to study for).  

William Brennan

- Busy with hw from other classes.

Kathryn Butler

- User Documentation
  - Added information on how to install Beaver Botanica
  - Added an example on how to report a bug
- Developer Documentation
 - Added details to the overview section, and how to get the source code
 - Added the entire hierarchy of our directory structure

Finlay Curtiss

- Wrote "Bug Reporting" section in User Documentation
- Wrote "Building Beaver Botanica" section in Developer Documentation

Adison Daggett

- The objective was to survive. Everything I wanted to do was thrown out the window. may god help us all

Luke Scovel (@Flameis)

- Made progress on the api and started building the react app
  - Built the node modules and starter src

Jake Thompson

- worked more on API design
- participated in team meetings to discuse what need doing
- Fully finished the species list parser.

### Individual Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

Anshu Avinash

- [ ] I plan to work on implementing the login/signup functionality, which will allow users to create accounts and access personalized features.
- [ ] Additionally, I’m looking into enabling a search feature and filter options on the main webpage to improve usability. The search feature will help users quickly find specific plants, while the filter options will make it easier to narrow down results based on different criteria. 

William Brennan

- Start integrating front end and back end.

Kathryn Butler

- Finish the draft of User Documentation
- Finish the draft of Developer Documentation
- Begin Testing and Continuous Integration documents

Finlay Curtiss

- Continue working on User and Developer Documentation
- Contribute to Front-End Development

Adison Daggett

-

Luke Scovel

- Ensure that the api returns information when the frontend requests it
- Start entering data into the database

Jake Thompson

- finish api design
- get backend js working enough for demo
- help with front end js if needed
