# Status Report 2025-03-05

<!-- filename format is YYYYMMDD.md -->

<!-- Both sections should have the following three subsections. Each subsection is best organized as bullet points, though you can write a paragraph instead.   -->

## Team Report
<!-- status update for your TA, including an agenda for the project standup meeting -->
- [x] Create beta version of Beaver Botanica
- [x] Ensure application can be installed and accessed easily by other users
- [x] Complete documentation for installation and use 

### Last Week Goals
<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

- [x] Continue to add functions to webpage.
- [x] Link database to webpage.
- [x] Create event listeners for client to server.
- [x] Finish draft of User Documentation.
- [x] Finish draft of Developer Documentation.


### Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

- We were able to create a polished and functional beta version of Beaver Botanica as well as documentation on how to install, run, and use the application. We were able to distribute it for beta testing on 3/3/2025, and need to review the feedback we received to improve upon our application.
- We are currently struggling with implementing the backend with the frontend. We have designs for a frontend, but need to find a way to implement it correctly with our database. 

### Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

- Complete the poster for our presentation
- Record a demo of Beaver Botanica
- Pass the class and have fun!

## Contributions of Individual Team Members

### Individual Last Week Goals

<!-- The first subsection is easy. It should be an exact copy of the third section from last week (i.e., goals from a week ago). It is empty for the first week -->

Anshu Avinash

- [ ] Focus on the front-end development functionalities such as add plant details, search and filter option (if possible). 

William Brennan

- [x] Add styling to the pages Luke created

Kathryn Butler

- [x] Create the poster and fill out more information about the final project.

Finlay Curtiss

- [ ] Add to poster
- [X] Finish User and Developer documentation

Adison Daggett

- [X] I mainly want to catch up on the workload that I had completely missed last week. This can include front end development, anything to do with the API, etc

Luke Scovel

- [X] Get the Beta version of the website up and running

Jake Thompson

- [X] look into open steet maps for the map part of the project
- [X] be ready for beta test


### Individual Progress and Issues

<!-- The second subsection reports on progress and issues: what you did, what worked, what you learned, where you had trouble, and where you are stuck -->

Anshu Avinash

-  I focused on the frontend integration, specifically working on the dropdown functionality. I implemented a dropdown component to enhance user interaction and ensure ideal selection of plant details. Encountered issues with the dropdown not updating properly when switching between filters. Debugging took time to resolve unexpected state changes.


William Brennan

- Restructured how the pages were opened up on the website.

Kathryn Butler

- I did quite a bit on the poster. I created the layout, organized the information in the final presentation poster and documents, and I ordered the poster from Media Hub.

Finlay Curtiss

- Worked on user documentation to ensure it was clear how to install and run the application for beta testing

Adison Daggett

- At this point with integration the only things I need to work on are adding any of the social media esque tasks.

Luke Scovel (@Flameis)

- Implemented various features
  - Reporting
  - Verification
  - Image display (can't upload images, will have to use external hosts)
  - Plant Details Page
  - Comments
- Merged the design the frontend team did into the website
- Improved the account handling process
  - Validate emails and passwords
  - Users cannot have the same name
- API was made by me

Jake Thompson

- Got open steet maps working for map (this was a big breakthrough)
- made a project logo from 2 icons
- etc.

### Individual Goals

<!-- The third subsection should outline your plans and goals for the following week. Each bullet point should include a measurable task and a time estimate. You may use nested bullet points for parts of a larger task. No bottom-level time estimate should be greater than 3 days. If a task would be larger, think about a logical way to break it down and to have insight into progress. If tasks from one week aren’t yet complete, they should roll over into tasks for the next week, with an updated estimate for time to completion.
For the weekly report, this third subsection should be higher-level and indicate who is responsible for what tasks. Also, it’s good to include longer-term goals in this list as well, to keep the bigger picture in mind and plan beyond just the next week.  -->

Anshu Avinash

- Fix state update issues when switching between the each dropdown features.
- Include the social features' front end.
- work on the final poster and report 


William Brennan

- Finish documentation.

Kathryn Butler

- Finish the poster.
- Finish the final document.
- Update the living document and make sure everything's complete.

Finlay Curtiss

- Finish poster
- Record demo
- Help with presentation

Adison Daggett

- Add in the front end of the social features.

Luke Scovel

- Help finish the final presentation

Jake Thompson

- Just keep working on the remaining features that we need/ and imporving the ones we have.
  - first to tackle: finish map crud.
